okay so um at the end of last time let
me just restate uh the theorem that we
proved which was the varos
m test which uh you know I'll state in
briefer form now as the following
um suppose
FJ are a sequence of functions from some
subset s of
R
um so that for all J there
exists non- negative number M
subj such that two things hold first off
these M sub JS uh dominate The F sub
JS f subj of x is less than or equal to
M
subj and
two uh these M sub JS are
summable okay
then the conclusion
is um the sequence of partial
sums
so
converges uniformly so there exists some
function f from s to R so that the
partial sums converge
uniformly okay
all right so this is a sequence of
functions built up by the fjs by uh so
um by just taking the sum of the first J
equals 1 to n of
them all right and so for example and I
kind of went through this last time so
example uh
if FJ ofx
[Music]
equals our old friend
one cosine of 160
JX over 4 to the
J then and let's say on R so s is
r and uh a couple of
things FJ of X for all X is less than or
equal to 4us J because cosine of
whatever you put into it is always
bounded by
one and
since uh this is Con
converges this
implies
that this series which I'm writing uh
this way which you should think of as a
limit
of
um of uh functions of of the partial
sums which are functions
uh
converges uniformly on R okay not only
that this function defined by I take X I
stick it into here is continuous because
last time uh we proved that the uniform
limit of continuous functions is uh
continuous this function here is the
uniform limit of the partial sums which
is just finitely many cosiness of things
so that that's continuous so um this
gives another proof of one of the things
we we did by hand when we spoke about
differentiability namely that
um that uh this function that we
considered was
continuous Okay so let's go back to
Power series which
was our original motivation
so so I'm going to be saying that a
series so let me again make this uh
perfect clear when I
say if you like uh make this a
definition or really this is just
uh I was using this terminology up there
in that theorem and uh when I was
talking about this example afterwards
but when I say A series involving
functions converges uniformly I mean the
partial sums converge uniformly so um
so
means there exist a function
f such
that and all of these are from s to r as
well such that
okay just so that there's no ambiguity
all right so if I have a sequence of
functions F subj and I form their series
and I say that converges uniformly that
means there exists some function f so
that the sequence of partial sums these
are now functions converges uniformly to
the function
f okay that's what power series are
right they're they're um Expressions
involving a free variable X and there
therefore you can think of them as you
know a series involving
functions so let me just
uh State the following theorem about
when we have uh uniform convergence
so let's suppose we
have uh a power series
with radius of
convergence row which I will uh recall
is defined to be the limit as J goes to
Infinity A J one over a
j inverse if this limit is zero we uh
say that the radius of convergence is
infinity okay so if this is a finite
number this is a meaningful expression
if this is zero then this is short hand
for saying um the radius of convergence
is
infinity
okay so let's assume this
is then as long as I stay strictly
inside the radius of con convergence I
have uniform convergence okay this is
the the statement of the theorem then
for
all
RN zero
row this power series now thought of
as you know a series of functions of
x
uh converg
is uniformly
on x-
R
xot plus
r okay so the picture is um we have some
radius of convergence X knot xot plus
row xot minus row if we take any closed
interval basically inside of that
strictly inside of that uh um interval
then we have uniform convergence of the
power series all
right okay so we'll prove this using the
virus m test
okay so let R be in zero row
then for all J and okay so the virus
drawm test is for J equals starting from
one and going to Infinity but you know
you don't have to just like for series
we don't have to start at one it can
start at zero um so for all
J Union zero
um what do we have what we writing and
for all X
in this interval where we want to show
uniform convergence we have that uh this
function a subj x - x knot to the J an
absolute
value what is this bounded by this is
bounded by absolute value of AJ and
then J and because X is in this interval
its distance to X knot is less than or
equal to R
so R to the J so this will be
my MJ that I'll use uh for the virus dra
m
test
okay let me put that in parenthesis
because I may not use that MJ all right
so uh these individual individual
functions just polinomial are bounded by
uh this number for each J um
and now I want to see if the series
of uh involving these numbers
converges so let me apply um the root
test we have uh
this is equal to now this R the J to the
one over J just becomes R and it can
just come out of this limit and I pick
up
a to the one over
J and um this is equal to one over row
right by uh uh so this is equal to
um if you like I can put R over row as
long as if
row is less than infinity meaning if the
radius of convergence is less than
infinity and
[Applause]
zero okay and what do we notice now R is
less than row right R is coming from the
closed interval zero up to the uh row
not including row so this number so this
is always less than one but this number
is always less than one two as long as R
is less than row which implies
that series sum from Jal 0 to Infinity
of AJ R to the
J
converges okay so now we have um the
sequence of functions the the polinomial
that we use to build up our power series
each of them bounded by this number uh
these numbers a subj absolute value
times R to the J and these numbers uh
are summable okay the series converges
so by the virus m
test this implies that the S power
series
converges uniformly on this interval
okay all right so as long as we stay
within strictly within inside the radius
of
convergence we have uniform convergence
of the power
series and therefore using the theorems
that we proved
before
um we can differentiate and integrate
term by term uh the power series
so which follows immediately from this
previous theorem and then what we uh
proved last time which I'll State
now be a power series with
radius of
convergence
row
positive
so let me write it this
way and the first
is for all C uh
inside xus r R xot plus
r um the function given by the power
series which I'm not going to call this
F or anything I'm just going to refer to
the power series directly this
is
differentiable at
C and to compute the derivative you can
just do it term by term meaning I can
take the derivative inside
by
DX
of
of J equal 0 to Infinity a
subj valuated at xal
c um this is equal to Simply
differentiating term by term
[Applause]
okay and number
two for all
a
um for
all a less than
b well
with xot minus row less than a less than
b less than xot plus row so here I'm
sticking to strictly with the inside the
radius of convergence there's
the xot plus row xot minus row and so
now I'm going to integrate over some
interval
inside um then I can integrate term by
term uh the integral from a to B sum
from j = 0 to Infinity of a subj x - x j
DX equals um and I'll just write it this
way sum from J equals 0 to Infinity
of okay
okay and in fact Let me let me just to
to Really emphasize that we're
interchanging limits here let me instead
write this uh equivalently as sum from
Jal 0 to Infinity
of
J D by
DX of a subj x - x knot J evaluated at
xal C
okay so for a power series I can
interchange um the limits okay the limit
being taking a derivative and the sum I
can interchange and then I can also
interchange the uh integration and the
sum as long as I stay within the radius
of
convergence okay and this statement here
is a pointwise um okay so let's uh let's
see why one is the case two follows
immediately from from um what we've
proven and so this previous theorem and
uh the theorem we have about integration
and uniform convergence so what about
one so first
off um we know we have uniform
convergence
of uh the series strictly inside of the
radius of convergence so how about uh we
need to check to see if the uh formal
derivative uh also has radius of
convergence as well um equal to row so I
claim that the radius convergence of the
derivatives which equals
um I can write it this
way
no so the derivative of this guy is J *
a subj * x - x to the jus1 so just
shifting uh indes this is equal to * J +
1 * x - x to the
J so our claim is that this power series
here
has radius of convergence equal to row
the original radius of convergence so
row is the radius of convergence of why
did I come over here I still had a board
left okay sorry about that
um the original Power Series has radius
of convergence row what we need to show
to prove part one is that um the radius
of convergence of the derivatives of
taking the derivatives inside also has
radius of convergence row okay because
then this would imply that this power
series uh which is the derivative of
that one converges uniformly on the same
set so then we have uniform convergence
of uh the power series and uniform
convergence of the derivative of the
power Series so by the theorem we proved
in the last lecture um we would have uh
that the derivative of the power series
equals the power series of the
derivatives okay so I'm just going to
focus on this
claim um and this again just follows
from um you know what we know about
limits and so
we compute that if we take the limit as
J goes to Infinity of now these are the
coefficients for the new Power Series
so AJ +
1 um J +
1 raised to the 1 over J this is equal
to uh
limit J goes to Infinity of
a sub J + 1 now raised to the one over J
+
one J +
one one over J +
one now all raise to
um J + one over
J okay now this was a special limit that
we looked at last time okay um this the
limit as J goes to INF not last time but
way back when we were looking at
sequences the limit as J goes to
Infinity of this guy is one okay so this
in fact
equals limit as J goes to Infinity um
this goes to one this goes to one so you
can actually say this you know converges
to one as well so this equals
to
the J + one over
J okay now you know strictly speaking
you would have
to okay
so this thing also converges to what
does it converge to this remember is
so um where do we have it do we still
have it up here
so the radius well it's way over there
so let me recall that the radius of
convergence row uh let me put an inverse
here this is equal to the Limit as you
put a k goes to Infinity of a subk 1
over
K all
right so this is the exponent is
converging to one this is converging to
uh row inverse again so I get row
inverse to the one
so
therefore this is supposed to be the
radius one over the radius of
convergence to uh the differentiated
power
series which
implies of the differentiated power
series
[Applause]
J is uh one over this
limit one over that limit which we
computed is to be is one over row uh
which is the original radius of
convergence okay so all this to say is
that the radius of convergence of the
differentiated power series The formally
differentiated power series is the same
as the radius of convergence of the
original Power series okay and therefore
you have uniform convergence of the
derivatives wherever you have uniform
convergence of the original Power series
and therefore by the theorem we proved
last time
um since both the derivatives and so
since the power series and the
derivative of the power series converges
uniformly on the same set um the power
series The Infinite sum so this guy is
actually differentiable and the
derivative of the power series is the
power series of the
derivatives
okay but you can iterate this right um
because I now have this power series
with radius of convergence equal to the
radius of convergence of the original
and then I can take a derivative of that
and show that's uh has the same radius
of convergence as the original so let me
just leave this as
a remark and not stated as a
theorem
iterating can prove that I want the K
derivative of uh the power
Series
so on
so let me
say all X in here the K derivative of
the power
series is equal
to
the power
series of uh differentiating term by
term
so this holds
for all k equal 1 two and so on and so
in particular if I
evaluate at X knot this tells me
that
uh K factorial a subk is equal
to the
derivative of this function which is the
what you get out when you stick X into
this p power
series
okay all
right and you can interpret this uh
although we never called them tailor
series um you know as a statement that
every Power series is the tailor series
of a
function okay at least in this setting
that we're looking at
okay
um
so we've answered pretty um definitively
at least for the scope of this class
when we can interchange limits um we can
do that as long as we have uniform
convergence of the objects that
we uh interested in be it uh you know
the
function continuous functions or
function and its
derivative um but there are
more powerful statements out there that
one can make especially when it comes to
integration this is why
[Music]
um you know
um essentially why a different theory of
integration was created or one reason
why um
but
uh you know hopefully um if I see some
of you in 18102 which is what I'm
teaching next semester um we'll get into
that further when we dis discuss leag
integration that was thought of uh
because somehow remon integration is not
complete the same way that the rational
numbers are not
complete
um kind of reman integration is not
complete leag integration is complete in
a certain sense I'm being very vague
here for a reason so but I'm just giving
you a
um you know where this where you can go
with this okay is what the next step is
is you know
um at least improving when can you
interchange uh two limits is is you know
really a topic that's uh fundamental to
the the study of in the study of leag
integration and you have much more
powerful theorems there than you do here
um which allows you to prove you know
interesting results and especially about
for you Series in fact
um you know if I had more time we would
apply in fact some of the stuff that
we've done here we could apply to the
study of 4 Series
but um maybe we'll do that in 18102
okay so I want to now
um prove The Last Theorem of the
class
which is also due to the
Godfather so you know when we had these
power Series so these are defining you
know functions
[Applause]
um very special types of
functions what are called
analytic um they are by definition
essentially the limit of polinomial
right they're the limit of these um
finite sums of ajs * x -
x0 uh raised to the J power that's a
polinomial so
for uh analytic functions which are
these functions equal to uh Power series
they are are the limits of uh
polinomial but uh that's a
pretty small class of functions analytic
functions
um but
uh the virus stas proved this very
interesting result
that
um actually something like this is true
for all continuous functions so roughly
speaking um
proved that
basically uh every continuous function
is in some sense almost a
polinomial okay just as we saw for these
analytic functions meaning defined by
power series they are very close to
being at least within their radius of
convergence a polinomial in fact this is
true for all continuous functions that
uh not necessarily equal to a power
series but um every continuous function
is almost a a
polinomial and in what sense um do I
mean that so this is barrus
approximation
theorem which states the
following
um if f is
in a continuous function and on the unit
inter interval say you can make it a
just by rescaling the variables uh but
I'll just state it for continuous
functions on the unit
interval
then there exists a
sequence
polinomial P sub n of x
such
that P subn converges to
F
uniformly on
okay and so in this sense you know um
every continuous function is well
approximated by polinomial so every
continuous function um
is close to being a polinomial
all
right okay so I need to First prove
uh
um a couple of things that that will be
needed so first off I'm only I'm going
to look at only uh um so let me make
some remarks before we go to the
proof so we're putting the proof on hold
now so let let me just make a remark um
I don't necessarily need to prove this
statement for every F just for certain F
and then for every F will follow from
this special class so
um so we only need to consider we'll
only consider the
case f of 0 equal
0 and F of one equals 0 so f is0 at the
end points why we're doing this is so
that we can extend F to a continuous
function outside of the unit interval by
just setting it equal to Z uh zero okay
um and so let's suppose we've proven
this special case and we look at the
general
casee then if I take any
continuous function
now uh what do we know that there
exists sequence of polinomial P
subn such
that these
pols piece of n converge uniformly to a
small modification of F that results
in um
so um this function here if I look at it
it's a continuous function on 01 because
I'm just modifying it by constants and
then uh times x and then uh at F of one
I get F of one minus F of 0 - F of 1 - F
of 0 so I get 0o and at 0 I get F of 0 -
0 f of 0 is 0us 0 * something I don't
care equals 0 so there exist pols
converging to this function now right if
we've been able to prove the case just
for uh F of 0 equals 0 and F of one
equals
0 so
uniformly and therefore the polinomial
is given by P
subn uh of X Plus now X
time F of 1 - F of
plus so this is still if this was a
polinomial so is adding this to it
that's still a polinomial converges
to F Tilda of X uniformly and this again
this is still a
polinomial Okay so
the whole point of this remark is that
we only need to consider the case f of 0
equals 0 and F of 1 equals 0 okay and
we're going to do that just so that we
can extend F to a continuous function
outside the
interval all
right all right
um now the way we're going to build
these polom that converge to F is by
what's called an approximation to the
identity okay um really I guess you
could think of it as an approximation to
the Delta function and I'll explain that
in just a minute
so
uh for all in natural
number Define c subn this will be uh the
integral from minus1 to one 1 - x^2
raised to the
N DX one over and then uh Q subn of X
this is going to be equal to C subn * 1
- x^2 raised to the
N then a few simple
um consequences are so first off this is
the integral of a function which is not
negative but it's positive at plenty of
places between minus one and one and you
proved in the homework that this means
that the integral has to be
positive then the first is
uh all in natural number
um all X and 01 so the first two of
these uh observations are very
clear q n of X is greater than so - 1:
1 q n of X is bigger than or equal to
zero so it's just C subn which is a
positive number Time 1 - x^2 x^2 so X is
between Min - one and 1 and therefore 1
- x^2 is always non
negative
two is uh this is also pretty clear the
integral from minus1 to one of Q subn of
X DX
equals
okay now why is this clear because this
is equal to the integral of 1 - x^2 raed
to the n * C to the N or C subn but C
subn is the uh inverse of that integral
so we should just pick up one now the
third and less trivial thing which is uh
important is
that for all
Delta and
um this function Q subin I mean this is
just a polinomial uh converges to
zero
uniformly
on
U on the
set Delta is less than
so X such that Delta is bigger than or
equal to the absolute value of x
uh no Delta is less than or equal to the
absolute value of x is less than or
equal to one okay so in other words
here's minus one 1 0 Delta minus Delta
if I look
in these regions so in the you like the
the union of those two intervals then Q
subn This polinomial is converging to
zero
uniformly uh as n goes to Infinity on
uh on the union of these two
intervals okay so what is the picture of
what's going on what do these Q subin
look
like so here's minus one here's one so
kind of the first one uh you know looks
like some constant Time 1 - x^2
so there's the first one
and then as n keeps getting bigger and
bigger you know this is zero at higher
and higher order at one and minus one
and getting pretty small near here and
in fact according to three uh if I
take any interval around zero and look
outside of it as n goes to Infinity Q
subn is going to zero uniformly so what
it should look like is maybe the next
one
looks like that and then further
still like that so that um you know if
I look
inside over here or over here
um Q subn is going to zero uniformly so
what you should think of is that um the
Q subn as n goes to Infinity is
something like a direct Delta function
which is not exactly a function
um okay so again so let me um
reemphasize that uh and this is in
quotes you should think of Q
subin
um acts like
Delta
function X centered at x equals z okay
so that's in quotes because that is
meaningless but some of you who've taken
physics know what a properties are of a
Delta function um and you know the
integral is one it's somehow zero
everywhere away except for the origin
and it's infinite there uh but somehow
is integral one
um
so
okay so these Q
subn will show form an approximation to
the identity in a certain sense but let
me uh let's prove
these
um let's
prove the only non-trivial one which is
three right number one and two are clear
based on how they're
defined
okay okay so let's first estimate how
big is this so this constant C subn we
don't really know how what it is
explicitly but let's uh compute at least
a rough size of it
so and then we'll use this to prove uh
the third
part so we have
for all in a natural
number uh the following inequality and X
in - 1
1 1
- x^2 raised to the N this is greater
than or equal to 1 minus
nx2 okay now this if it's not so it
shouldn't be like you know hit you in
the face clear why this is true but one
way you can prove it is that if you look
at the
function g ofx = 1 -
x^2 n so first off this inequality is
even in X doesn't matter if x is
negative or positive so let's look at
this
function
uh on
01 then what's the point
uh I look at G of Z this is zero and if
I compute G Prime of X this is equal to
n *
2x uh times what
times 1 minus 1 - x^2 to the N minus one
and this is always um less than or equal
to one this thing in parentheses so this
thing is always bigger than or equal to
zero on
01 so on 01 this function is
increasing and its value at 0 0
so we get
that which is exactly what we wanted to
prove
okay so now we compute uh the size of C
subn so
to do that let me look at 1 over C subn
if I want an upper bound on C subn I
need to prove a lower bound on one over
C subn so let's uh take one over C subn
and find a lower Bound for it this is
the integral from minus 1 to 1 of 1 -
x^2 raised to the N DX now I can't
remember if I made this a homework
problem or not but for even functions uh
integrating over um
an interval even with respect to the
origin this is just
twice I mean I'm sure you remember this
from calculus it's not hard to
prove with what we know of the change of
variables formula and so on um that this
is equal to twice times the integral
from 0 to 1 of 1 - x^2 raised to the
N okay now this is bigger than or equal
to two times if I integrate to a certain
point this certain point is chosen so
that I get a result in the end that's uh
pretty
essentially
um now um now this is where I replace
this by the smaller thing which is easy
to integrate so this is greater than or
equal to two integral Z One overun n 1
minus n
X2
DX and I leave it to you to verify that
with this choice of the end point what I
get is
four uh over
three root n 1 over root
n um and therefore
so and this is bigger than 1 over root n
so I started with 1 over C subn and I
showed that it was bigger than one over
root n and
therefore C subn is less than one over
is C subn is less than the square root
of n
okay now we'll use this to to um compute
what we want in fact I mean we really
just needed to show that c sub is
bounded by um you know some polinomial
in N but but this will
suffice so we now want to
show
so let Delta be positive we now want to
show that Q subn converges uniformly to
zero on uh that set where the absolute
value of x is less than or equal to one
is bigger than or equal to Delta
now we note
that um the following sequence converges
to zero that uh square root of n * 1
minus Delta squar raised to the N so
should also put Deltas in 01
so this sequence
here converges to zero as n goes to
Infinity now intuitively why is this
this is because you know this is some
number less than one raised to the nth
power uh you know exponential always
beats just a polinomial or you know a
power of
n um if you want to see exactly why this
is we could compute the limit as
n goes to Infinity of this sequence
raised
to 1/ n
power then this is equal to the Limit as
n goes to Infinity of n^ the 1/
N 12 1 - Delta
squar and this converges to one we prove
that and so this equals 1 minus Delta s
Which is less than one and we have this
um you know theorem from uh our section
on sequences that says if this limit is
less than one then the thing here
converges to zero you know or you could
interpret this as saying that the series
with this as the individual terms
converges and therefore um the
individual terms have to converge to
zero
so which implies limit as n goes to
Infinity
equals
zero so now we have this and you know
once we have this we'll have what uh we
want so
um we want to prove uniform convergence
on that set so let Epsilon be
positive
uh then since this uh sequence converges
to zero there exists an m a natural
number
so that for all n bigger than or equal
to M uh Square < TK of n * 1 - Delta squ
raised to the N is less than
Epsilon and for all n bigger than or
equal to M for all
X so that Delta is
between less than
one we get
that um Q subn
so it's non- negative minus zero in
absolute value that's just Q subn of
X ra to the N this is less than or equal
to square root of n that's for this guy
1 -
x^2 um this is getting smaller as I get
closer to one so it's biggest at
Delta and how we chose m is this is less
than
Epsilon
okay okay so now we're ready for the
proof
of the Vos approximation
theorem so suppose f is continuous
function on
01 F of 0al
0 f of 1 equals
z
okay so
um you know this polinomial here is very
concentrated at uh
you know at zero so um well first off
suppose F uh and it's continuous here
so you can check that if uh it's zero
there and I extend it to be zero outside
of 01 this is still a continuous
function I'm just defining it this way
because I want to write um certain
symbols in a little bit without
specifying
exactly where the the bounds of the
integration are
okay so we
extend F by
zero outside
of
01 and this function f
is continuous function on uh the real
number
line okay
okay so we Define now we're going to
Define this uh
polinomial sequence of polinomial P Sub
in this is going to be equal to the
integral from 0 to
1 of f of T * Q subn of T minus X
DT and just to remind you this is equal
to the integral from 0 to 1 of f of T *
C sub n 1
- x - t^ 2 raised to the N DT okay so
this is just um you know c subn times
this thing if you expand everything out
is just a
um you know using the binomial theorem
this is equal to J
equals uh
uh I'm just going to put a sum here
meaning a finite sum uh some numbers uh
a subj n times x uh know to the J time t
to
the just some finite numbers a j K * x j
t to the K all right all I'm saying is
if you expand this out using the
binomial theorem you get this the this
polinomial in x subj t subk Okay and
then this is getting integrated against
um f of
T all right DT and so this is in fact a
polinomial right I'll give you a you
know it
um Okay
so let's let's write this out and be uh
precise just so that you're convinced
that it's a polinomial this is equal to
the integral from 0 to one of f of T
time C subn now we use uh
um the binomial theorem this is equal to
j0 to n n choose
J
um and
then minus
x - t^ 2 raised to
the N minus J or I could put
J 2
J okay and then
DT I'm not sure if this is even helping
or anything but just just so that you
see this is actually a polinomial f of T
C subn sum from j = 0 to n and now sum
from K = 0 to 2 J N choose
J minus one to the J
um now 2J choose
k um Min - t to the K * x to the 2 j- is
K
okay and then DT so I have all this junk
integrated DT and then this is X to the
2J minus K so that just pops out so this
is a polinomial all
right I mean this is a polinomial but
then when it integrates against F of T
this x to the 2 J minus K comes out of
the integral and I get that times just
all you know this becomes a sum of terms
with x 2 Jus K uh outside this integral
times F of T time you know integrated
against minus 2 to the
K all right I think I said more than I
needed to there but uh so the point is p
subn of X is um a
polinomial now um we can write this
slightly differently
so P subn of X this is equal
to this as it was
before now this we change variables and
is equal
to um so we do U substitution now where
U is equal to x minus t and then I'm
going to um you know change the
DT so what I did here was a change of
variables by setting U is equal to x
minus t I guess you could if You' like T
Min -
x and then I just recalled and then I
just called U then
again so I'm eventually looking at these
polinomial only in the interval 01 so um
okay so this is what it looks like um
but
now
um you know this f ofx plus t for T
between minus X and and 1 - x it's
actually zero outside of that so I can
extend uh the integration to minus1 and
one again
with the understanding that I've
extended F to be zero outside of uh
01 so
since f
y equals
z or let me write it this way since f
ofx plus tals Z for uh T not N - x and 1
-
x
okay all right so that was a lot of you
know explaining um for some stuff but
here let me get to the let me get to the
point um what is piece of n really so
um why should you expect this to
converge to F so this is a little
discussion so I said that um and this is
for those who understood my comment
about Delta
functions
um you know n q subn is very
concentrated at uh zero at T equals zero
okay
so um
this you should think of as being
approximately approximately like a Delta
function at T if you don't know what a
Delta function is or never heard of it
then forget the rest of this uh remark
but uh um then I'll say something so Q
subn kind of looks like a Delta function
and therefore uh
minus1 of x + 2 t q n of T DT
should look more and more like f ofx
plus T Delta of T DT and what we know
about uh direct Delta functions is that
when you integrate him against a
function you just pick up the function
evaluated
at uh zero which
is okay so you know that's kind of why
you uh expect it I mean if you look back
at this picture of what the qns are
looking
like they are concentrating more and
more at zero all right so all of the
contribution to this integral here which
defines these pols is happening at T
equals 0 at T equals 0 I just pick pick
up F ofx
okay so that's why you should kind of
expect these polinomial meals to uh
converge to
um back to the
function
okay the thing I can finish on this
[Applause]
board so this is a picture you should
have seared in your mind this is what
the Q Subs look
like that they're concentrating all of
their Mass right at the origin and
therefore I should just pick up
F uh at the point x since this is
concentrating at the origin T equals 0 I
should just pick up f ofx plus T at tal
0 which is f
ofx
okay y f ofx plus T not some constant
times f ofx plus T that's because the
integral uh of Q subn is uh
one okay so now let's prove uh that the
PN converge to F
uniformly all
right okay so let Epsilon be
positive since
f is a continuous function on a closed
and bounded interval we know that it's
uniformly
continuous and therefore there exists
Delta positive such
that
um how am I WR writing this
here such that if
uh let's write it this way for all zy so
that Z minus y less than Delta we get
that F of Z minus F of Y is
actually we don't need uh okay so I mean
we don't
need so much uh so much of about F but
we'll go with this
anyways um we really just know okay
never mind I'll stop so we know that f
is uniformly continuous so there exists
a Delta so that I have this yeah so less
than
um Epsilon over
2 okay so if z and y are within Delta to
each other then F of Z and F of Y no
matter what z and y are within Epsilon
over two of each
other okay
now
[Applause]
since f is continuous it has a maximum
on this interval uh well I should say
since f is a continuous function it has
both a Max and a Min on this interval
and therefore um there exists some
number
c such
that f ofx is bounded by C for all X and
okay all right so now I have
uh this Delta coming from the uniform
continuity of F I have this C coming
from the fact that it's bounded on this
interval and now I'm going to choose my
M for the uniform convergence of the
polinomial just depending on these uh uh
pieces of input
then as we showed
since square root of n 1
minus Delta squ and converges to
zero this implies there exists an M
natural number so that for all n bigger
than or equal to
m i get that square < TK of n 1 - Delta
2 raised to the N is less
than uh Epsilon over H
C
okay all right I claim this m works that
for all n bigger than or equal to M for
all X and 01 PN minus f is less than
Epsilon
um and for all n bigger than or equal to
M for all X and
01 uh if we look
at P subn of x minus F
ofx we're going to use that uh you know
this thing is an approximation into the
identity meaning it's it's you
know um essentially that it satisfies
those three properties that I wrote a
minute ago um so this is equal to
integral from minus one to one of f ofx
+
ttimes q n of T DT minus F
ofx what's the the integral from minus1
to one of qn subt that's equal to 1 so f
ofx is times so this is you know all of
analysis is writing one or zero in a
certain
way um not all
but so I can write this as f
of x + T now minus f ofx * qn of
T DT again because the integral of Q
subn of T equals 1 all right so again if
you just expand this out this is f ofx
I'm integrating with respect to T so I
just pick up what I had
before now by the triangle inequality
for integrals this is less than or equal
to the integral from minus one to one of
f ofx + T
minus F ofx times the absolute value of
Q subn of T
but since Q subn of T is non- negative
that's just Q sub n of
T and now I'm going to split this
integral up into two part into two
parts this is equal to
um a part where T is less than or equal
to so should uh minus Delta
Delta F ofx +
tus
FX Q subn of t d T and then plus the
other part which I can write
um as so it's a union of the two
intervals now away from
Delta and out to
one so so it's the sum of the integral
over these two intervals which I'm going
to write as the integral over um Delta
less than or equal to T is less than or
equal to 1
and
um time q n of
T
right now um T is between minus Delta
and Delta and therefore x + T minus X an
absolute value is less than Delta
right so in this uh
in integral here I want to note that if
T is in this interval here
um x + T
minus x = t is less than Delta in this
here so since this guy minus this guy is
less than Delta an absolute value
um I can use this uniform continuity
part to say that this is less
than Epsilon / 2 q n of
T
DT plus now the absolute value of this
guy is less than by the triangle
inequality is less than or equal to the
sum of the absolute values Which is less
than or equal to uh c 2 C
so one and then 2
C okay because that's bounded by C
that's bounded by C so the absolute
value of the difference is less than or
equal to the sum of the absolute values
which is bounded by each of those
bounded by
C
okay now uh this is less than Epsilon
over two integral from if I just
integrate the whole
thing from minus one to one that just
gives me one plus 2 C * qn of T U on
this interval is again so I shouldn't
put Delta
there 2 c um c
subn 1 - Delta 2 raised to the N DT
and so there's no T here so this is
equal to Epsilon / 2 because this
integral is 1 plus
uh
this um C subn remember is less than the
square root of n * 1 - Delta 2 N times
the integral over this region DT which I
can make bigger by going from minus1 to
1 that gives me two and this is equal to
Epsilon / 2 + 4 C < TK n 1 - Delta 2
N and this is less than Epsilon / 2 plus
Epsilon / 2
equals Epsilon I think I have one minute
to spare so um this was quite an
experience teaching to an empty room um
I hope you did get something out of this
class um unfortunately I wasn't able to
meet a lot of you and that's one of the
best parts about teaching and being able
to see um you grasp in real time what
I'm talking about so hopefully uh this
nightmare will end soon and um we'll get
to see each other in the future